This is what you need to do to install uLPC:

1) Run ./configure, this is a sh script that will generate machine.h and
   Makefile from machine.h.in and Makefile.in, use --prefix=/foo/bar
   if you want to install ulpc in /foo/bar, default is /usr/local.

2) edit config.h and Makefile to suit your purposes.
   I've tried to make it so that you don't have to change config.h or
   Makefile very much. If you need to do what you consider 'unnessecary
   changes' then mail me and I'll try to fit it into configure.
   If possible, use gnu make, gcc, gnu sed and bison.

3) Run make.

4) optionally, run 'make verify' to check that the compiled driver works
   as it should (might be a good idea) This can take a little time and use
   quite a lot of memory, because the testprogram is quite large. If everything
   works out fine no extra messages are written.

5) If you want to install ulpc, write 'make install'

What to do when it doesn't work:
1) Try again.

2) ./configure relies heavily on sed, if you have several sed in your path
   try another sed. (preferably gnu sed)

3) configure might have done something wrong, check machine.h and report
   any errors back to me.

4) Try a different compiler, malloc, compiler-compiler and/or make.
   (if you have any other)

5) Don't use gnu 'ar' on Solaris machines, usr /usr/ccs/bin/ar instead.

6)
If you find a bug in the interpreter, the first thing to do is to make sure
the interpreter is compiled with DEBUG defined. If not recompile with DEBUG
and see if you get another error. When you've done this, please report the
bug to hubbe@lysator.liu.se and include the following:

  o The version of the driver.
  o What kind of system hardware/software you use (OS, compiler, etc.)
  o the piece of code that crashes or bugs.
    (preferably in a very small lpc-script with the bug isolated)
    Please send a complete running example of something that makes the
    interpreter bug.
  o a description of what it is that bugs and when.
  o if you know how then also give me a backtrace and dump of vital variables
    at the point of crash.
  o or, if you found the error and corrected it, just send me the bugfix along
    with a description of what you did and why.

  /Hubbe
